The year was 608 B.C.E.
The prophet Jeremiah
had already served
nearly 40 years faithfully,
and now he “was confined
in the Courtyard of the Guard” in Jerusalem.
Jerusalem’s walls
were being battered by the Babylonians.
In less than a year,
the entire city
would be completely destroyed.
Jeremiah had to weather the storm.
There was no way out.
There was no place for him to go.
He was under lockdown.
Well, have you ever felt like Jeremiah
—as if the world was caving in on you?
Maybe it was a serious health scare,
the health of a loved one,
the death of a loved one,
or maybe COVID-19
has made you feel boxed in.
Some of our brothers, just like Jeremiah,
have faced persecution or imprisonment,
and that might be our lot
before the end of this system of things.
Well, what will help you students
—in fact, all of us—
during these critical last days
when we face personal trials, or adversity?
I invite you to open to Jeremiah chapter 32.
Let’s consider a dramatic illustration
in the life of Jeremiah.
Now, Jeremiah is under lockdown.
Jeremiah chapter 32,
let’s read verses 6-8:
“Jeremiah said: ‘The word of Jehovah
has come to me, saying,
“‘“Here Hanamel the son of Shallum
your uncle will come to you and say:
“‘“‘Buy for yourself my field in Anathoth,
because you have the first right
to repurchase it.’”’”
Verse 8 says:
“Hanamel the son of my uncle came to me,
“just as Jehovah had said,
into the Courtyard of the Guard,
“and he said to me:
‘Please buy my field in Anathoth,
“‘in the land of Benjamin, for you
have the right to take possession of it
“‘and to repurchase it.
“Buy it for yourself.’
At that I knew that this was
by the word of Jehovah.”
What was Jehovah’s instruction to Jeremiah?
Buy a field.
Buy a field?
Right now, with the Babylonians
beating on the door?
Jeremiah might have thought,
‘I need an escape plan, not a field
—of all places, Anathoth?’
Where was Anathoth?
Well, Jeremiah knew exactly where it was
—just a few miles
north-northeast of Jerusalem.
He was born there into a priestly family.
Did he have pleasant memories of his past
in Anathoth as a youth?
Very likely.
But now that was a distant memory.
More recently, men of Anathoth,
possibly some of Jeremiah’s own relatives,
threatened to kill him
because of his prophesying.
Well, did Jeremiah obey
in spite of any personal feelings
he might have had?
Jeremiah always obeyed,
even previously when Jehovah told him
not to take a wife or to have children.
Well, what did he do in this situation?
Verses 9 and 10:
“So I bought the field in Anathoth
from Hanamel the son of my uncle.
“I weighed out the money to him,
seven shekels and ten silver pieces.
“Then I recorded it in a deed,
affixed the seal,
called in witnesses,
and weighed the money in the scales.”
Jeremiah could have worked
in the Legal Department.
Well, he carried out the legal transaction,
the legal requirements of the transaction.
He recorded the transaction in two deeds
—one sealed, one unsealed—
complete transparency in this situation.
Why did Jehovah ask Jeremiah
to buy a field in Anathoth?
Jeremiah already had complete faith that,
yes, Jehovah’s word would be restored
—when 70 years had transpired,
the Jews would return to their homeland.
But now Jehovah reinforced Jeremiah’s faith
by giving him something specific
to think about.
Jeremiah could imagine the time
when buying and selling
would again occur in Israel.
Well, was Jeremiah’s faith
well-placed in Jehovah’s promise?
Absolutely.
Ezra later documented
that 128 men of Anathoth
were among the first group
of those returning from Babylonian exile.
Jehovah’s word always comes true.
Well, how might we
—how might you—
“buy a field in Anathoth”?
Well, we’re not expecting you
to go out and purchase
a piece of property
in a place called Anathoth.
No.
We find a clue, though, in Hebrews chapter 11
—Hebrews 11:1:
“Faith is the assured expectation
of what is hoped for,
the evident demonstration
of realities that are not seen.”
The Simple English Bible
renders it this way:
“Faith is the title-deed
to the things we hope for.”
Now, most of us in special full-time service,
we don’t own property.
But we may have the title to a car.
What does that mean?
That means that car, that vehicle,
belongs to us personally.
Our faith is the “title-deed”
of good things to come,
a guarantee of future realities.
Jeremiah had a “title-deed.”
We have a “title-deed” of faith.
So how do we “buy a field in Anathoth”?
It’s not a type-antitype situation;
it’s just an illustration.
In the context of our discussion,
it means we exercise faith
in Jehovah’s promises.
When facing a trial,
we can search Jehovah’s Word
for promises regarding the future,
and that gives us strength
to keep on enduring.
For example,
if we’re facing a serious illness,
God’s Word promises:
“No resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
If we’re grieving the death of a loved one,
the Bible assures us
there is going to be a resurrection.
The trial doesn’t disappear yet,
but exercising faith in Jehovah’s promises
helps us to endure.
Now, there’s something else that we can learn
from that dramatic illustration
in the life of Jeremiah.
Back in Jeremiah 32, notice,
please, verses 13 through 15.
Jeremiah was inspired to write, he said:
“I now commanded Baruch
in their presence, saying:
“‘This is what Jehovah of armies,
the God of Israel, says,
“‘“Take these deeds, this deed of purchase,
“‘“the sealed one
and the other deed left unsealed,
“‘“and put them into an earthenware vessel,
“‘so that they may be kept for a long time.”
“‘For this is what Jehovah of armies,
the God of Israel, says,
“Houses and fields and vineyards
will again be bought in this land.”’”
Jeremiah involved Baruch
in the legal proceedings
when he bought the field in Anathoth.
Jeremiah’s faith
influenced Baruch for the good.
We can almost hear
the confidence and conviction in his voice:
“This is what Jehovah of armies,
the God of Israel says.”
Jeremiah used that expression,
“Jehovah of armies,”
more than any other Bible writer.
It was like Jeremiah said:
‘Our God will certainly overturn
the Babylonians.
‘These promises are real;
you can take them to the bank!
They’re not counterfeit;
they’re completely true!’
What’s the lesson for us?
Our faith can strengthen fellow believers.
A sister named Joyce,
while she herself was fighting cancer,
made what she called shot-in-the-arm cards.
They were collections of Bible verses,
pictures from our publications,
quotes from theocratic songs
or Watchtower  articles,
and she would give them
to those in need of encouragement.
One of her favorites was Psalm 112:7, 8.
And there it says:
“He will not fear bad news.
“His heart is steadfast, trusting in Jehovah.
“His heart is unshakable; he is not afraid;
in the end he will look in triumph
on his adversaries.”
Sister Joyce had
a lot of bad news in her life,
but her faith in Jehovah’s promises
was powerful.
Sadly, Joyce lost her fight with cancer
a few years back,
but she “bought a field in Anathoth,”
and she will witness
the fulfillment of Jehovah’s promises.
Even now, she’s given us a shot in the arm
—encouragement from Jehovah’s Word—
and strengthened us with her faith.
And so, dear Gilead students,
what have we learned?
Faith is like
a “title-deed of things hoped for.”
Faith in Jehovah’s Word
helps us to endure trials and adversity.
Our faith can have
a powerful effect on those around us.
So when faced with persecution,
“buy a field in Anathoth.”
When faced with a grievous health problem,
When grieving the loss of a loved one,
“buy a field in Anathoth.”
And some day soon,
your faith will be rewarded.
You’ll walk in that field
when Jehovah’s word comes true.